# Owslebury Lads

Folk song

https://mainlynorfolk.info/folk//songs/theowsleburylads.html


Dave Williams sings The Owslebury Lads

The thirteenth of November, last eighteen and thirteen,
The Owslebury lads they did prepare all for the machinery,
And when they did get there, my eye! how they let fly,
The machinery flew to pieces in the twinkling of an eye.

Chorus (after each verse):

O the mob, such a mob, you have never seen before,
And if you live for a hundred years you never will no more.

To Winchester then we were sent, our trial for to take,
And if we do have nothing said, our counsel we shall keep;
But when the judges did begin, I’m sorry for to say
So many was transported for life and some was cast to die.

Some times our parents they comes in for to see us all,
Some times they bring some baccy or a loaf that is so small;
Then we goes into the kitchen and sits all round about,
There is so many of us that we are very soon all smoked out.

At six o’clock in the morning our turnkey he comes in
With a bunch of keys all in his hand tied all in a ring,
And we can’t get any further than back and forth the yard,
A pound and a half of bread a day, and don’t you think it hard?

At six o’clock in the evening the turnkey he comes round,
The locks and bolts they rattle like the sounding of a drum,
And we are all locked up all in our cells so high,
And there we stay till morning, whether we live or die.

It’s now to conclude and finish my new song,
I hope you gentlemen round me will not think it wrong
For all the poor in Hampshire the rising of their wages
I hope that none of our enemies will ever want for places.

---


https://southernhistorysociety.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/Vol-32_2010_Alun-Hawkins-The-Owslebury-Lads.pdf

---
]
ALso relating to Swing riots / Captain Swing

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0002646/18301129/019/0003
Star (London) - Monday 29 November 1830

TO DO

WINCHESTER, Saturday. Nov. 27.—A great number of prisoners were brought in during Tuesday and Wednesday, and news arrived serious disturbances at Basingstoke, Andover, Fordingbridge, Owslebury, Arington, and several other places in the county. Soldiers were seat off as soon as they could be spared to several of the places, and the rest were supplied with troops from other sources.

A general meeting of the Lieutenancy and Magistrates of the county was held at the Grand Jury Chamber, on Thursday morning, at which the Duke of Wellington presided. The resolutions passed upon that occasion have been printed for circulation, but thew isdom of them have I been somewhat questioned. Instead of breathing that spirit of conch liation and kindness which it was hoped they would approach, and to which the willing and honest labourer eagerly looked, the resoluti ins are principally recommendatory of the prompt application of force, and the formation of yeomanry and volunteer corps. The whole body of special constables were on duty throughout the day and made so formidable and soldier-like an appearance, that the Lord Lieutenant is reported to have said, there could not be occasion for much military assistance to a place so well defended ; an 2 whether this were said or not, it is ceriain that a considerable portion of troops have been since removed. The special commission for trial of the rioters is expected to arrive in a few days, the gaol being much crowded. The mobs are not found to consist entirely of labouring men, as has been represented ; nor are their only objects the destruction of machines and an increase of wages. I Several inhabitants of Winchester, and other towns, and many persons in full employment, at high wages, as mechanics and trades. men, have been apprehended, and lodged in prison, as ringleaders of most flagrant outrages. Two men in full work, as sawyers, in the receipt of two guineas per week each, and actually sworn in as special constables, weee taken, with laurel in their hats, at the head of a despe. rate mob near itch eldever. Large sums of money have been extorted by violence and threats from several individuals, at their own houses, anti p-rsons have been stopped and pillaged in the public roads. Women and boys take their share in these outrages, which are concluded by a division and expenditure of the spoil at publichouses and beer-shops, which last prove convenient places of mee.- log and rendezvous. Some have been beard to declare that they will not work, while they can earn so much more by mobbing. `fliers all this will end no one can tell. Too much praise cannot be given to Sir William Heathcote and oilier magistrates, for their prompt and in. cement exertions, at much personal risk and inconvenience, in the suppression of the riots in this neighbourhood, and the apprehension of the offenders. The soldiers have behaved with the utmost steadi- ness and forbearance, and are entitled to the respect and gratitude of every honest citizen. Our city police is now very effective, and the magistrates unremitting in their endeavours to preserve the public peace, but all this would be of little avail in the absence of mill. tary aid. is still troubled at the movements and eontiniing demonstration of a chemist, at Chichester, aid concealing combustible trattct:., fur the purpose of aiding incendiaries, and who was again re-examined on Sunfarce displayed by the great Powers upon the Continent. France. the, my, or rather the pri day evening, by the Secretary of State for the Home D e p artretnt, on the , :ciple of government which modem France has same ehar4e, on a warrant from that office, was again sent to the Consecrated by revolution, is the ultimateobject of all these mum- , magistrates at Chichester, on Tuesday last, with an order for his db.. thins. They look upon immediate war as inevitable, but regard its ap.. i charge. The magistrates of the Chichester Bench have continued their sittings during the past w ee k, at w hi c h L or d G eorge L ennox has been proach with th e utmost coo l ness an d con fid ence. It w ill b e a war o f opinion --a dan gtrous test f or Ki ngs i n t h ese d ays;—o f op i n i on b e- nearly constantly in attenda he e. , tween the divine rights of Kings and ,:he rights of the people to choose their own governors. Upon one side they range all the mob of Kings who acknowledge no rule but their appetites and their pas. sions • upon the other, th e sma ll b u t goo dly b an d o f E ng l an d, F rance, and Belgium. The French Journals have no objection to enter the lista with such allies. Without the subsidies of England, Russia, they say, is too poor to move her barbarians from one place to another. Austria is too sluggish to be dangerous, and Prussia will have guile enough to do at home. Th ere was already a report of an insurrection at Berlin. In the meantime the French nation was placing itself in an attitude which must teach caution to the Kings. In the department of war all was oustle, under the indefatigable Soult. The fortresses wcte being garrisoned, inns provided, and an army of observation of 150,000 men, it is said, is about to be formed upon the Rhine, to be commanded by General Gerard. ALARMING RIOTS AT HIGH WYCOMBE. IN BUCKING- 

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000493/18301127/010/0002?browse=true
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 27 November 1830

TO DO 

STATE OF HAMPSHIRE. DESTRUCTION OF MR. C. BAKER'S SAW Since our last publication, this town has been in a continued state of excitement and commotion from the various (and many of them exaggerated) reports which have been brought in of outrages committed by incen- diaries, and numerous assemblages of agricultural la- borers in the neighbourh< 01, and by the equally ex- aggerated reports of thjea eaing letters being received by many respectable inhabitants of the town ; and this was increased in some degree on Sunday by the arrival of instructions to Captain Colla d, tbe commanding officer of the militia stafi\ to remove the locks from the guns (of which in the depot there are about 500). and with 'he bayonet's; to have them conveyed to Ports- mouth for safely. Nothing, however, ol serious con- sequence occurred in the town or immediate vicinity up to Tuesday night, except the breaking of the agricultu- ral machines, which, according to the accounts fur- nished by our coi respondents, appears to be pretty geneia throughout the county. At the time of going to press, and indeed tor the last three days, no circumstance ( with tin* cxc* pt ion of an assemblage in the neighbourhood of Hythe) has occurred within a circuit often milesof this town deseiving of any serious consideration : such tri- fling occurrences as come within our knowledge we attach. But we cannot sufficiently express our indigna- tion of the conduct of the cowardly miscreant whose fiendish propensity was carried into full effect in the night ol Tuesday, in the total destiuctinn of Mr. C. Baker's extensive saw mills by fire. Every effort is heing used for his detection, and as a reward of 15001. is offered, we hope soon to hear that he is in custody. It appears that in consequence of information he had re- ceived, Mr. Baker apprehending that an attack might be made on the machinery, had established a guard. On lhe night in question a man and boy had perambulated the exterior of the premises, and from the statement of ihe former, we find lhat a few minutes before the fire broke out he was at that part ofthe premises which was first discovered Ijbe on fire. His supposition is that the incendiary must have got over the wall of the garden adjoining, and (fiom the instantaneous spreading of the flames) that the boards had been previously washed with turpentine. He immediately released the horse from tbe stable, and sent off an express for Mr. Baker who resides at Millbrook. This occurred soon after one o clock on V\ ednesday morning, and tbe whole town was of course thrown into a state of fearful anxiety by the ringing of the alarm-bells, the cry of *• fire," and the springing of the watchmen's rattles. It was immediately perceived that the premises on fire weie those of Mr. Bakei at the coiner of Marsh Lane, and thousands rushed there to render assistance, but the buildings bting almost entirely composed of wood, covered with a thick coat of tar to preserve it fiom the weather, and the yard and warehouses being filled with slacks of timber, bone-dust, and other inflammable commodities, the whole, with all the valuable machinery, fell an easy prey to the ravages of the devouring element : in fine, so rapidly were , be premises consumed that, notwith- standing they covered an area of half an acre, at be- tween-three and four o'clock every part was razed to the ground (with the exception ofthe walls and chimney of the engine-house) and presented to the eye a confused neap of burning rums. It unfortunately happened that he well belonging to the premises was situated so close to the fire that it -could not be immediately made use of; and it. was not till some time after Jhe arrival of the en- gines that a supply of water could be obtained. The Uftees--w-_! L Cttainry extremely, serviceable ; aud we think that three suob one* at least should be kept in the town in case of the recurrence ofa similar disaster. Too much praise cannot be awarded to the tradesmen and hremen on the occasion. W title we would wish to for- bear singling out individuals, we feel it our duty to \i e r w D ,B n b, *_ ' term ? the nam « s of S ?? Fevre, esq. and ?? lhe , 80od con duct, also, which was pre- served by the lower orders we notice with infinite Pleasure. A reward of SOW. is offered by the town? wm k £ ove ™ me,a * a »d l »e exceeding liberal sum of SSi'Jr the f C ? UDt y Fire Office, for lbe discovery and cony of ,h e mcendia Th<J remi »d ™ potr o f G B^ «■«*»«. "* S« insured tote ?? " yde Parker ' of H.M.S. St. Vincent, at r-ortsmoutli, on perceiving the flames, immediately sent 2_»J ? etacl ' me^ «f nw'*es and sailors to lender I*. till ma' ?? ?? n c L onse Q«?nce of mistaking the road, they did not arrive here till eight o'clock. The thanks of the town have been voted to them. AND FOLLOWING PAGE

THEN ALSO

LYMINGTON, Nov. 27. MEETING OF THE INHABITANTS. A meeting was held on Tuesday last at the Town Hall, for the purpose of adapting measures for the pro- tection of property from the diabolical acts of incen- diaries, who, it is apprehended, are making their way through this and the adjoining counties. The Rev. George Burrard being called to the chair, observed, that although he considered the primary object of this meeting to be the adoption of measures for protection of property fiom the midnight incendiary, he should also bring forward to their notice a subject, which, at the present crisis, was of the greatest impor- tance—that of tbe Labourers' Wages. The labouring classes were at this present moment in a state of great excitement, and he was confident that nothing would appease them but an advance of wages. Several farmers here stepped forward, and said, that they would, one and all, be most willing to advance their men's wages, but even now they were labouring under such a weight ot rent and tithes that it was with the greatest difficulty they could bear up with them ; and under the present circumstances, without a propor- tionate reduction of rent, &c. they feel, lhat to raise iheir labourers' wages, would, in a very great degree, tend to their ruin. The Rev. G. Burbard concurred with them, that the course o relief to the poorer classes must spring from that to which they had alluded, viz. the reduction of rents, &c. He then proposed to the meeting, with a view to meet the present demand of the labourers, that all persons employing such labourers should pay them not less than vine shillings per week ; and that the pa- rishes be recommended tp give a g.dlon loaf and six- pence to every married man, having a wife and one h- i • W ' tb tbe add'** oll °f sixpence for every other child incapable of working. This proposition being put to a show of hands, it was carried, there being but one dissentient. V\ hile tbe meeting was thus engaged, a number of men fiom the adjoining parishes, amounting to 40 or SJ, marched up lo the Town Hall to hear the decision. I hey were very orderly and peaceable. The Rev. G. H.UKBARD addre-sed them from the window of the Hall, and loid them the decision of the meeting, which they received apparetiily wi b great gladutss. They expressed themselves very well satisfied, gave three hearty cheers, and separated to their respective employ- ments. 1 he chairman then brought forward and read some re- solutions, respecting the protection of property, which ended in a subscription being commenced to defray ex- P e, * ses > and give rewards to asy person or persons who shall detect, and by their evidence convict any mis- creant, or miscreants, who shall set fire to, or attempt to set fire to any rick, barn, out-building, or dwelling- house, wiihin the parishes of Lymington, Bolire, Brockenhuist, Miiford, Hordle, and Milton. The amount subscribed nearly amounts to 1,0001., and the reward offered is 3001. The magistrates attended at the Town Hall on Wed- nesday, and swore in upwards of 200 special constables, and they continue their attendance till Saturday, thai the neighbouring parishes may also have the same op- portunity. By tbeir acting so promptly, and also the gentlemen, tradesmen, and the inhabitants generally showing such a willingnesss to perform the duty of their office, it is to be hoped that our peaceable town may not be interrupted by any of those disorderly persons, who are at present making such devastat.oas in other parts, of the county. A melancholy accident occurred near the entrance ofourriver, on Monday evening last, by the upsetting ofthe* Hurst Preventive Boat. Theweather being cloudy, the men in the boat did not perceive a vessel in herslays close upon them, but ?? was at anchor, they kept too close, when the b> at, ia which were the Cotnmander's lady, Mrs. Keys and daughter, was run down. By the prompt assistance of the sailors the lady was saved, but the child met a watery grave. 