# Captain Swing and the Swing Riots



Swing riots hampshire

https://www.englishprojectcaptainswing.org/_files/ugd/e03879_88561707c5cb44dbb44b94dc20281288.pdf
HAMPSHIRE MACHINE BREAKERS
THE STORY OF THE 1830 RIOTS
JILL CHAMBERS


https://www.englishprojectcaptainswing.org/the-bicentenary-commemoration/opportunities-to-take-part
Captain Swing Hampshire Bicentenary



https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000231/18301129/007/0001
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 29 November 1830

ISLE WIGHT, Saturday, Nov. Newport.— Great alarm has been felt by the inhabitants of tbe island during the week, owing to the spirit of disorder which has manifested itself. On Monday the greatest consternation prevailed at Newport, in consequence of information that the paupers employed cultivating the lands of the House of Industry, in Parkhurst Forest, were in a state of revolt, and intended to march a body to the town, for the purpose of demanding an increase of pay. Henry, Sewell, Esq. of the firm of Sewell, Hearn, and Sewell, mounted his horse, with the praiseworthy intention of meeting the men, but unfortunately, in hastily turning the corner of the street, by the Free Grammar School, the horse fell, and was very much injured, and Sewell was severely bruised as to prevent his proceeding. Two other however, went to the Forest, and promising tohe men that the wages should be increased, succeeding res oringorder.' Whilst these proceedings were on, the Magistrates assembled at the Town Hall, and swore in about 100 respectable tradesmen as constables. A general meeting of the inahabitants of the island is convened for this day, to take into consideration the best means to effectually check the spirit of insubordination which extensively prevails; and large rewards are for the discoveryof ill disposed persons, it hoped that further mischief and outrage will be prevented. On Wednesday a meeting was held, and a liberal subscription c into,' for the purpose supplying the poor with coals during the winter. Married, on Tuesday, Whippingham, the Rev. Mr. Sewell, Lieut. Thomas, R.N. Jane, daughter of Mr.J. Died, on Saturday and Monday, two children Howard, tea dealer, of the typhus fever. Monday, after a few hours illness, Elizabeth, daughter of Mr Trimmer, tailor and draper. Saturday, the infant of Mr. J. Poore, stonemason. Wednesday, the New Village, Mis Cooke, aged 83,, wide of the late Mr. J. Cooke, sadlec. Intelligence oontinues in f age 

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000231/18301206/023/0004
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 06 December 1830

[A Reward Is offered this Gazette for discovery of the person who set fire to a hay rick at Freshwater, in the Isle of Wight, on the 29th of November.]

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000231/18301206/029/0004
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 06 December 1830

ISLE WIGHT, Saturday, Dec. 4. Newport.—The island has been for some days past in a state of excitement, rather from the apprehension of riots amongst the labouring classes, than from any overt acts of violence. Threatening letters have been received by several farmers, in consequence of which thrashing machines have been generally disused. Symptoms of discontent made their appearance during the last week amongst the paupers employed on the Forest Farm, and at one time an actual strike took place, and they left their work for the purpose of visiting some neighbouring farmers. They, however, took wit in their anger, and after a little confusion returned to their work. The statement that they were pacified by a promised advance of wages is erroneous. No concession has taken place to any violent demands, but an addition to their wages was made last week by the guardians of the poor, in consequence of an advance in the price of bread. With the present arrangement they have expressed themselves satisfied. As farmers labourers are generally very well contented, the island is likely to remain in its present state of tranquillity. Proper precautions, have, however, been taken by the Magistrates to repress any disposition to disturbance. Special constables have been sworn in different parts the island, and a public meeting has been held, at which the great body of respectable inhabitants, public resolution, expressed their willingness and desire to co-operate with the Magistrates in any measures for the preservation of good order. Fires have, however, taken place, which must be attributed to the incendiary system. A hay rick belonging to Mr Tucker, of this town, was set fire to on Saturday night last, and totally destroyed. The inhabitants of the town were called from their beds by an alarm of the fire bell. Engines was immediately prepared, and every exertion used to stop the progress of the flames, but without success. Two men are in custody on strong suspicion. A hay stack, belonging to the very Rev. the Dean of Ely, at Freshwater, and a thrashing machine, belonging to Mr. Rich. Harvey, at Rookley, were wilfully destroyed by fire on Sunday night, and an attempt was made, without success, the same night, to set fire to a corn stack at Gatehouse Farm, near Ryde. Every exertion is making to discover the offenders, and from our insular situation, and the great difficulty of escape, it is not doubted that the guilty parties will be soon brought to justice. Large rewards have been offered for their discovery, in addition to the sums offered by Government. Rewards have also been offered and measures taken for the apprehension of any persons who may attempt to excite disturbance, it being suspected tbat agents have been sent here for the purpose.

Married, Tuesday, at Kingston, Mr. S. Saunders, butcher, to Miss Baker, daughter of Mr. Baker, of Corve Farm.

Cowes.—A meeting was convened at the Town Hall on Monday, at the instance of the Magistrates of the Island, to consider and adopt the most effectual measures, in case of need, of quelling any tumult that might arise in the town or neighbourhood. The general opinion however appeared to be that, from the locality of the place, no incitement existing in the minds of the labouring class, there was but little to apprehend; but should any incendiaries make their appearance, or any outrages take place, the whole of the inhabitants would unite in a body. A few special constables were, nevertheless, sworn, to be ready on the first alarm.

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000069/18301206/017/0004
Hampshire Telegraph - Monday 06 December 1830

NEWPORT, Dec.4.] The Island has been for some days past in a state of excitement, rather from the apprehension of possible riots amongst the labouring classes, than from any overt acts of violence. Threatening letters have been received by several of the farmers, in consequence of which, the threshing machines have been generally disused. Symptoms of discontent made their appearance during the last week amongst the paupera employed on the Forest Farm, and at one time an actual strike took place, and they left their work for the purpose of visiting some neighbouring Farmers. They however took wit in their anger, and after a little confusion, returned to their work. The statement contained in the *Hampshire Chronicle* of last week, that they were pacified by a promised advance of wages, is erroneous. No concession has taken place to any violent demands, but an addition to their wages was made last week by the Guardians of the Poor, in consequence of an advance im the price of bread in the town of Newport. With the present arrangement they have expressed themselves satisfied; and as the labourers employed by the farmers are generally very well contented, we have reason to believe that the Island will remain in its present tranquility. Proper precautions have however been taken by the Magistrates to repress any disposition to disturbance; special constables have bean sworn in in different parts of the Island; and a public meeting was held on Saturday last, at which the great body of respectable inhabitants by a public resolution expressed their willingness and desire to co-operate with the Magistrates in such measures as they might think it right to adopt for the preservation of good order. We regret, however, to state that fires have taken place since the last week, which we are compelled to attribute to the incendiary system. A hay-rick, belonging to Mr. Tucker, of this town, was set fire to on Saturday night last, and totally destroyed. The inhabitants of the town were called from their beds by an alarm of the fire-bell, the engines were immediately got ready, and every exertion made to stop the progress of the flames, but without success. Two men are in custody on strong suspicions of having been concerned in it. A Hay-stack belonging to the Very Rev. the Dean of Ely, at Freshwater, and a thrashing-machine belonging to Mr. Richard Harvey, at Rookley, were wilfully destroyed by fire on Sunday night; and an unsuccessful attempst was made, on the same night, to set fire to a corn-stack at Gatehouse Farm, near Ryde. The Magistrates are using every exertion to discover the offenders;and we have little doubt, from our insular situation, and the great difficulty of escape, that the guilty parties will he soon brought to justice. Large rewards have been offered for their discovery, in addition to those already otfered by Goveroment. Strong suspicions are afloat that attempts to excite disturbance have been made by agents from the other side of the water. Rewards have been offered and measures taken for the apprehension of such offenders.

Late on Sunday night Lord Malmesbury, the Governor of this Island, arrived here, in consequence of representations being made to him of a tendency to tumult and riot existisig here. His Lordship on Monday attended a meeting of the Magistrates, and on Tuesday left the Island. His Lordship having been led to expect that we were in a much worse state than we really were, brought with him a number of mem belonging to the Preventive Service, and also some aoldiers, all of whom however left the next day.

We have much pleasure in stating that near 300*l.* have been collected for the relief of the Poor during the ensuing winter, and that the distribution of Coals will take place next week.

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0001427/18301208/015/0003
Morning Advertiser - Wednesday 08 December 1830

Also in e.g. [Northampton Mercury - Saturday 11 December 1830](https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000317/18301211/004/0002), [Morning Post - Wednesday 08 December 1830](https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000174/18301208/033/0004)

HAMPSHIRE. Newport (Isle of Wight).— Much apprehension prevails here, from the symptoms of discontent exhibited by the paupers employed on the Forest Farm. The farmers have received many threatening letters, and several baystacks have been set on fire wilfully.


https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000069/18301227/016/0004

Newport, Dec. 25.] During the night of Wednesday last a hay-rick, near Sandford, was set on fire by some incendiary, which fortunately from the state of the wind, proceeded no further. Had it been in an opposite quarter, much more property must have followed the wicked designs of this diabolical act.

Sir Wm. Oglander, Bart., of Nunwell-house, according to annual custom, has relieved the poor of the parish with beef, bread, clothing and blankets.— George Shedden, Esq. and John Nash, Esq. have also relieved the poor with coals, clothing and blankets.

...

Considerable dissatisfaction begins to prevail in this Island, as to the manaagment of the poor and the poors' rates. At present the Island forms as it were one large parish, with a House of Industry, or Poor-house, for the general service of the Island. The salaries and expenses attendant on this establishment amount to 2,000*l.* per annum; and it is managed under an Act of Parliament. The parish of Shalfleet has recently made application to the Magistrates to take measures to do away with this consolidated systtem.

The inhabitants of Brading having refused to obey the magistrates in swearing in Special Constables to preserve the peace, a body of military was immediately ordered from Albany, who are quartered on all the tradespeople and publicans of the town.

## Reform

TO DO - also in the news on the Island at the time (dec. 1830), petitions for Reform


## Forest Farm


e.g. https://www.islandrivers.org.uk/wp-content/uploads/2020/02/The-Rodgebrook-Stream-talk-Booklet-format.pdf

The tale could perhaps be set in the context of the farm as beig operated by the House of Industry?

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000493/18310115/027/0003
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 15 January 1831


NEWPORT. Jan. 15 Our Newport correspondent wishes us to state, that he has been particularly careful to send to our Journal nothing in the shape of news that even rested on doubtful authority, preferring an omission of intelligence altogether, to the insertion of that which, by any possibility, might have proved untrue, respecting paragraphs. Two are mentioned by Mr. Thos. Cooke, jun., which appeared in our Cowes intelligence: the one was a simple mistake, of wheat-ricks, when it ought to have been hay-stack consumed by fire. The other, the quartering of troops on the inhabitants of Brading, was a hoax practised on the *Hampshire Telegraph*, as well as on our own journal. And as to "the offspring of fancy" mentioned by Mr. C., he is quite at a loss to conceive as to what he can allude. Respecting Mr. Smith’s speech, at the Reform meeting, he feels satisfied that the report inserted in this paper gave the spirit and meaning of his observations.

...

The paupers working en the Forest Farm struck for advance of wages yesterday, and proceeded in body (joined by a party from Newport) to the House of Industry, where the committee was sitting for the inspection of accounts. They were told their case should be taken into consideration on Saturday next, at the meeting of the magistrates acting for the Isle of Wight, and with this promise they returned quietly to their work. The advance in the price of bread and potatoes was the reason alledged for the strike.


https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000494/18360604/005/0001
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 04 June 1836

ISLE OF WIGHT

FARM TO BE LET

TO BE LET, and entered on at Michaelmas next, the Farm and Lands called THE FOREST FARM, containing 228 Acres, situate in the parish of Carisbrooke, two miles from the town of Newport, to which the road is excellent. The Farm Buildings consist of a Cottage, Barn, and Outhouses. There are about 158 Acres of Arable, and about 70 Acres of rough Pasture. The Lands are in a good state of cultivation,— are free from great tithes. The rates are very moderate. This Farm has for 19 years been occupied by the Guardians of the Poor, within the Isle of Wight.

For farther particulars, and to treat for a Lease, apply to Mr. Hearn, solicitor, Newport.


https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000494/18361001/003/0001
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 01 October 1836


Also in e.g. [Hampshire Telegraph - Monday 03 October 1836](https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000069/18361003/003/0001)

TO DO

FOREST FARM, IN THE PARISH OF CARISBROOK, ISLE OF WIGHT. THHE Guardians of the Poor having *• determined upon relinquishing the above Farm, they have directed TUCKER and MEW to SELL BY AUCTION, on the Premises, on Frday, October 7, 1836, without reserve, tbe whole ofthe FARMING STUCK, which is ofthe best description, including the Corn and Hay, about 2000 Bushels of Potatoes, a rick ; of Wheat, about seven loads; Ditto, about eight loads; Wheat in Barn, about seven loads; a rick of Oats, about forty quarters; Ditto, about thirty quarters; Oats in Bam, about 10 quarters ; Beans, about five quarters ; Vetches, about three quarters. A rick of i Prime Upland Hay, about 16 Tons. The LIVE STOCK will comprise a very handsome iron-grey stallion, six years old, a black ditto, five years old, both possessing great muscular power, fine sym- metry, and good temper ; five cart mares and geldings in good wo king age and condition, a remarkably fine and promising chesnut cart filly, and two capital donkeys. The GEAR will enumerate two narrow-wheel waggons, with bead and tail ladders, grass cart, don- key dilto and harness, two broad-wheel trucks, thiee ploughs and tackle, pair of wheat harrows, pair ot harrow drags, set of thiee harrows and couplings, pair horse roller, sets of trace and thill harness, leather stall halters with chains, horse ties, sets of plough harness, collar cords, corn lines, forks, scythes, prongs, scoops, rudders, sieves, willeys, haul and grass rakes, with the usual minor implements of husbandry. Likewise a capital patent chaff cutter, two corn bins, imperial ■ bushel and strike, American van, large wind sheet, a thirty-one and twenty-three-round ladder, quantity of nek props, two rick settles, laige water tub, and various effects. The Sale will commence at Two o'clock precisely. 03=- Purchaseis are respectfully informed that a Deposit of 25f. per cent, will be reqaired upon the Corn, Hay, and Potatoes, at the time of Sale, and the remaining part of theputchase money on delivery. No Lot will be delivered at the time of Sale, nor until paid for.


## On Machinery

This ties in to technology and "progress", luddite arguments / luddism etc.

e.g.

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000069/18310117/009/0002
Hampshire Telegraph - Monday 17 January 1831

TO DO

AN ADDRESS TO THE LABOURERS ON THE SUBJECT OF DESTROYINC MACHINERY.

The following plain and simple Observations are addressed to you, on a subject which deeply concerns you all; in which your interest is as much at stake as that of the farmer and the Landlord.

You appear to have concracted#. #r5t disllke to Cite use of wtiat are itcrmled 11 N "I'ta tte use of Tieraultin ujcens u aye considered thc reason of' your dLIlc.Y s state, that machines are hurtfultohelbit ery they prevent the poor bcing, empoe grounds, yout lroscd to tdestcojI th . '1Thte word 11,achine sceerns to convey toYO in tsome contrivance necc'ssarily attensled wit Your Ollifld thle poor; wbereas, inl truth, thle word m~achine ?? 'thle samie as tool or- instrunment, onal occas' ?? tsamne'signification. A thrashing inachi ne ttl is a the o intratumenlt with which we thrash- so is a tooil, or, that it iito afar less useful machine, 5faloly ott tssunit remem11ber, titat the Almaighty hasssi Mate intotCitL ?? ]f'urniishiel, as fur asthe makeofeilth hotly is concerned, withe less means of providing i. (eiitittce for hitrself, titan any other anitlial it hs pleased llh to c-reate. All other animals early, is. deed soon after their birth, provide for theit ;ies the Ccare or' tite lanint ceases, and eale xttdividual ,th LI tlecto elepeends on his natural powers for support. i But this bodily wealkness of Alan is aflsply said fulhly made np to hint, ,and the defect Supplie by the rraore inellgeneasd invention, which (u0d has be. scowee upton hint. s Man, wiien tirinwt into the world in tli tati o Iweaktness, begins, as soon 55 lie feels his wanits and the Linecessity of finding food, to look about for cools, instre meentso ir niachines, to assist hint in cultiviting the s"il, the commron moclcer of nil his comforts. He Is inlvents Cite most Simple tools ; tit oles, the spalde, the rake.. the axe, the flail, the last Of' whaich is a machine which reficeirus munch experitenci to use wit effect; but h'lore hee~can obtain these esachietes or toels illtheli per fc'ction in wlsich we now use tietit. lie must bave disco. vi-rci iron. tie art of melting it. of' asting it, cad Ihen so C:Icr, ?? it again into hard, soft, or brittle. rnctil, 'accrerding to the , uses for whic' i eets t As men by experieiice atd lpracticevta hi nt ledge further, titey contrivis othermahnlsr. ?? or tools ; they mlalc tile wheiecrth PIlough1-till 0i' Which ars iotntendedadue oe i r oil an I abrlehce lii alabour. I r theeisrttetdd ?? I p)roilce thiis c'fl~!ct, men wouldrjethm ast. I'.ccci tnt iprffitable, Fui, tho r c xpe rie t cc antII pract ice lead to fu rt er ceon. trtvttn cc't, bt ?? tiree al way s m ad e wit cit IOIsitoua b ject in vie'., that oft decreasing oitr bodily toil saed itt. creasing O~tr comutorts. i'len have invented the eucipit, catlet cetchinery of' rills, thirashintg niachtines, san steamn engietic ; attd these are ciseil listauso they tetit to iucrettee not only the consforts ?? wcho uses clientt hat of bitt whto piurchttscs the articles antI' ttecessarie05 or lifri whiti t~h tsO macblues prepare for untueket, ?? 2consqeeptenl frte ioec itimenity. Wh~latever ;tool, lit setr tnet, or niachimee lessenms tito qoantity Or' labottr ?? ito prepare any coifetodity or article rcneitit ichtper in the mterket 'ttlmr iihlt i'vacie of every persots who desires to boy it; and o, tourse, Istlachoitrers are buyers, they 'profit byithe celtiapitrs. This is pcoved by thle folfotaitg plau)l sad srin)ple rewion ing.' The Icrice whithe must he paid for any article Ichich is louoglit. i's iw,,a~ys equal at least to the cost or price I of thle nolz it, bes'towetdc upotn it. Thle labourer tiust Ibec p ?? r In hi s wo ric ati d this ptayme ntcL t Io bu ?? is a~ )a~rt of tierc ticked for tlte article to be Sold. Ati art;l %which reqfitei's the laboitr of twso nen to maske Iit, rmust cost twice tis much as one which requires the labour of a single tnan otnly-but it' a person, by ltse invention of somise machtine, tool, or itestruecent, can - malta. with the assistatere of such machine, an article s hichs belbre the invention took the labour of two men' ite can afford to sell it for the price of the labour ofaneet manhand a part of its price Cite machtine so itvented 5cost butt ; ectd as these tools often last a lotig time, a e Snta~lltorticta of thrat price is sufficient. Nlow thes iplisit trutlee apply etiu~ttly to the most simp~le and the most comiplicated itaclittis or tools. Take tite exatmtple of P. Carpetnter. BlY the assistanec of [lila saw, his axe, Isis planes,hi iesote best sort soil conseructiotn, lie wlli(lo a5 Ptuch work as3 o two men can do with Lvorse tools, and tell tunes as ttucht as ten men could without any mactitte or touls e t whatever. Whent Peter tite Great was endleavouritig .5to civilize hsis Ritvssia subjects, he found that titey toail it no otlser way of' splitting their trees inteo deals, ex~cept 1) by the axe, which etascted their labour and their thil. bea nsd vr clutnsy planks. lie in'troduced is -id toughthe dirst year brought a lttrge revenue from the imtpost, the next yeiir it fetched little or, nothitio, till teten using theculte', which ethey ?? an immoense ,z usvittg mef both wccl: aitd witod uttil the poor Ru~ssiases ii thotu1gh very unci':iliaed atti ignierittt, thadf the seitss to see that till thle people gailntil by thle ctailge, because ~ .ll gitstiaevi(r tettls ceeaper andi b-iter eht1ecrforc they ii1 never tlr: aititci ?? it ?? saw threw mel0, C Out of' ettpi ty mmie-tt. Now. st ao. ab oitrer sholdli rgo to a c;'.rl~ni-r tt wo-itt'g, wvt ttt~tlttts or ittols of Ltile best :ti ton -tiotC0:, ;antd sayt LO i Hitt. "These tools ?? it Ith i~boturer beintg eviltployei. .nil yeeet aoll use Wotrse tools, aied cake atinther Itind to hevp you Would not (tie carpenter answer to tite laisouter. 'itt tire a madmants I can sell you the articles you wantt cheaper, med I make thems cheaper ?? an if they required twvo eten to tunics thein It is not the interest of yeoa or of tiny individual to destroy toy tools ; attd -if YOU attempt ie, and I can resist Yttur attenipt by force, I, will-do, it ; if I csnitot, tend ant obligeid to yield ts your lawless cnd cruel endeavouir to injure ets eand -yourself.' I ,vill secl: iny reauedy against you at the hands of ' Ustiee.- Now rstithet r, limbourors, there is no diffiereetce be- tween tf~e etese ?? labourer isho breaks the thrash- lug machitue of ?? farmusr, antui Clat of the labourer ?? Ito deroys thle tools or enachines of' the cirltetter.. Trie injustice is equal in both cases, although the rcotisequences ate ttore striking in cthe case of Elite fsr. mer, from the greater vaditt ofmnachines destroyed, saed athe greatser itjury sustained by the nuolerous iniv- duals whio depend upon the farmer for a supply of corn. Wheti she faretter has cut his corn antd housed it, the graitincmust be separated fromts the chaff anti strace' ayott wouli lnot, surely, desite to rub it out with your htands, thLtoce14 certaittly that 'could take ttore latboarers. Sotte niachiete or itstrumetnec ust -be used so thrash is cue. Whily should nteatelte fariter h e ltss'nittcd to use ctie instrumtent which awill do tltis -work most readuil y and efflictually- whicih will ilo it at Cite least cost, ?? itim to sc.id the corn to emtr- kee, to be sold at thse lowest price PL Yoetr clothes, your stockitegs, your shirts, are all made Ity macitites, far more curiously coestrived than citeithr shintiach elet. The calico atc x tksyu 11shirts, is wovett by a enachine, attcnded only by agiri; Ibeetit consequence of' the little labour requircil tents. cage it, the shsirt. whicle tortseerl ot, ccttsvaiii sillitegs, noes costs otily eighlteett petace. n It is undretdtlitvty' true, that all .oachiniery whichr spa1res ?? Iliboeur, uttavoidably, euintoc first Inesa- l ion tand on beginning of its work, throvesesote per. .i Soles otet of thu Oemploymsentft it Ihicli they had been seitgaged, and they, etust seek their etecane of support e i sme5O oth00tter wsay ; this is ithe necessary consequence of thiee tetroihcireon ilito use of' site ttost stneple Intislrl- - ,teti, alit! of all impelrovusements itt art. But en tlts W vhole, thle tUCbl, tictd every indlividuae~l in it, are in it tlse et iel-iifititelyte gainers. In following the coutse it yen are now hetnirstlg,, you are driving teen back to tiseir sievege -state, when they lived upon scoress auth e roots, anlti itad no mnachtintes nor tools 4t all, a greet de- e Eland icr litbour, anti very little to eat. Thle object of'thtis Adilre'ss is to point out to YOUt, it titat the breakiitg of msachincery viilnot retnedy tile C Evils of' which you cotstlalsf. Youi will soven deeply repent of yonr littljects anti your acts. Y'OU Wiiilfeted e set ?? orn wcii rice in price, itt proptortion so titeincrease sof laboulr'bescccwed l t bringing it to market. I' The oaurtages youa have cot ittetced areeqetally disgrace. 0ftil atdil it itrious to yesurselves, and tuner, in cembi. anationill wthe l.still ?? horrible crite of betriing.- if spreas furatistceed tisesolationesterough ties land. yourC Sttfferintgs cannttio be relieved by such acts; you will '~heap on your owia Heads, ott your children, your fand- lies, an tI ie rest of sour fellotw creatures, evils which I- when they arrive, wviii terrify ithe arouese hearts, anti fill cwaeihrespenstance & remeorse the boldest (If yourleaders. a It is true that the tutuber of labourers exceed the a meeatus which can be foutnd for their etoployment; atid let this excess lies Cthe real caose of tile present distress , =amnstLyou. It hassbeen brought on by a train Of cec t ritnces, for whicle the present generation are 055t tateswerable. Bat Cthe rentedy will not be found in em0. Iploying two men to do that which can be done, and abetter stone, by otte. 'Tile beet relief will be found in t tite f'ervcetnt and anxious desire, wltich is now felt by 's landlords aeed their tenants, s to ake every sacrifice in a elesr itower to support aetel cotofort theose, for wheat ,rconstantt employ cannot be obtained, and to pay thote - usho are fully employed a sum aereily sufficient to par. e chase the necessaries anti coeceforsesof life. An increase of trade, commerce, mattufactures, as tlte country prospers, will cause an increase ut s he growth ohf Cora, to supply the fbod of those who labour in manufactO- ries; fresh mouths to ieed will require more food for their use, and take up toe labourers who are now lin- s employed in the fields. t One other remark shall close these observations ; and e it is addressed to Cite whole community as weU as the Y labourers, but it interests tte labourers most ofalt- a The use of thrashing umacitines saves exactly ?? a partof thegrain. One-tetlt partis five weeks' cot-, e surption of thee kingdomn and maikes anU the difference s between a good and a bad hearvest...between a dear end a cheap year. ?? breaks these mnachines, there- fostre, Idoes as much harmI tO the CeUntry as if he modea e A few years ago, wlsen there was a fall demaned for labour, thrashiteg was considered as thee m ost irksomnt akinti of labour. It siay now be said in defence, esefl of the essuchl abused thrasltittg machinee, that the fia- esteer can eneploy the whole teuneher of? his labOur10S uniter sl~ceiee Ott eet days; witereas when he thrashes r by Cthe flail, two or thtree men are constantly at 'workt uncier shiehcer ovaen ini dry weateheer, and there is noroon~t to adiatsit more, no coeteforiabla wor* for tb:o whbole nuel ber in bad we'atthtr. 

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000230/18310124/013/0003
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 24 January 1831

LABOUR AND MACHINERY. To the Editor of the County Newspaper. * ir.— There appeared in your pages of last week a communication respecting labour and machinery, full of erroneous views, that it would wrong let them pass uncontradicud, a time when they ate calculated do much ivLi hief. here are many people who have their opinions yet form upon these ►objects, that, however glaring the absurdity of your correspondent's notions, unwilling should have a chance of paining even the most unwary for his disciples. Judging, indeed, from the dai y effusions of the press, does not appear that the unlettered are alw-y-the wotst informed upon matters i- kind. I

TO DO

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000069/18310131/007/0002
Hampshire Telegraph - Monday 31 January 1831

TO DO

THE RESULTS OF MACHINERY. C T7he7 ?? ?? Observations comprise a Chap- t tsr in a smoll I kG /0 recenlto7 publuished by the Soviet? t for the D[f'sioie of Useful Ianewltuogd, calted " The t Iflorkin/y Man's Compansion." b Amongst the many accounts which the newspapcrs of Decetnber, 1830, givt of the destructioll of baclhillery by agricultural lahoitrers, we rsad shtt b-i the neighbour- i hood ofAylesburv, wvhere l band( of mistaliccn uad fltb or- tL tunate tsen destroyed all the machinery of utalty farms, r doen even to the coMtaou, drills. 'liTh men conducted r themselves, says the county newspaper, %eith civility - and such was their consideration-, that :hcy moved the I machines out of tbe farui-yards, to prevent injury .ris- a ing to the cattle fromn the nails antcl spliliters that flew c bhout while the machinery wias being destroyed. They a could not moke up their 7rindls as to the propriety of tds- v troying a horse-churn, and therefore that niachine swas l yassed Over. U e will suppose, by way of argurment, that the-e 1I were no laws to reprcss such oUtiasges: that it the a labourers in agriculture choose to believe that not only threshing ;machines were injurious to she-t, but that every nme of those ingenious imitiilenca which hove aided in rendering British agriculture the most perfect i in the world, was equally harniFul, they iigiht, with- L out interruption, break them to picees. We will fur- i titer suppose, that while these prorceelin go iForward, I the lantdowner looks on, the farmer locks un, tie meagis- trate docs not stir, there are no judges or jurcit in the L land, and the people itl the towits leave the inachine- Ir breakers to their ovlo devices. So they brealr on-thrash- x ingmachittcte-isnowing machine, chiedirntrintachie, drill, and every other newfivlnglsd itivetiont, as they C call these things. Ve will suppose, still further. hat £ the farmer yietlas to all this violence; that the violence i hias the cr'cct whic! it was meact to have upon hirm * v and that lie takes on all the hauds which were cut of' r employ, to thrash and winnow, to cut chaff, to plant with a dibber instead of with a drill, to do all the woik, t in feac', by the dearest mode instead of the cheapest. i The destroyers of property have got the law, therefore, e into their own alitds, as far ats their machine-ry is cout- a cerned. And how do they proceed in their career ? a trhe farnier, we havet imagined, takes all this quietly ; a lie pays the new labourers who have got into his barns t and his fields, ready for hand-work, with their flails and their dibbers ; but lie etaploys jst as teany people c (s are absolutely neccssary, atid no more, for- getting f his corn ready for market, and for preparing, in a v slovenly way, for the seed-tinte. In a moitth or two,F the victorious destroyers find tihat not a sinsgle handi the t tore ofatheirt is really employed. A nd why not ? Titere c are no deralitigs going forwnrd, the liedges and ditches I I are ne-glidcted, the dung-heap is not turneti over, the a Ctclk is tot fetched fronm tihe pit; in fact, all those *; labotirs tare lteglected whichl belong to a state of gt:icuo I- tural industry which is brought to perlertion. 2'/u former has itofunds' to ?? te ?? lboers ; lie is mpeyinga great deli more thtia lie paidl before, becaune i% his lbhoutcers choose to do certain labours with rude c tools itste-ad of'perfcct ones. If be is a hiutane mran, i httt not a firm one, ant yields to the notion that it is ii a good thing to tdo work in the moast rountit-about w ar, c, antd, conseqoently, at the greatest expense. he drcos no; *i regret the loss ?? the drill-plougt, swhitt, as vell a; many other agricultural tools, lessens labour, lessens the quantity of seed, and increases the crop. lie spends c all the savyig which the drill-plough bics causcl upoti a ?? clamorous labourers, who insist that their arms are 'i better for his work than the instrusent which they have fi brokent. But still scote w0ik must he neglected, and it thus the actual amount ofmoney lait for labour isjust G the same. o We still inagine that this state of things contitues cI till the next spring. All this while tic price of graiti n has been risitg. ?? farmers have ceased to ctninpo P capital at all ?? the larith, The nioat inive-ItcIIIs,, L wbich enabled tbem to make a living out tf tbeir busi- ness, being destroyed, they have abantdoned tie busitiess dtogetler. Others, who liave yieldted to thie iptoar. go on as well as they can, neglecting a great matty labours that go to a good crop, although they are more and more pressed upon by tbe ?? for labour, in cons"- quetice of a deal of laid gotig ot of' cultivation. They pay as long as they can * thev pay ituch more for la- u bour than they did before some out of comnpassion and fi siomne out of fear. But the prices are steadily rising, A and, therefore, ahlhough there is more money paid to a great number of labourers, and although some receive si higher stages, in the coinmtt eense of the word, than ti they did before they broke the machities, they are in- it finitely worse off, for the rate of seages is really lower. A day's work will then no longer purchase ,ms much . bread as before. It requires the work of a day aud a half to procure the same quantity. Wages are, there- t I fore, really loster, because a less crop is being produced i at a greater cost, and the market-price is influenced I accordintgly. I The labourers now citlter begin to quarrel amongst t themselvess, and give up their unwise combinations ; or they still combine with the determinatton to obctaint i employment by tit de-atruction of every thing that alt, pears to them to stand in the way of it,-every thingY beyond the teeth aind nails of the worknien, as Joseph i F-oster expressed bimself-atnd Ot they go in svork ci ruin. The horse, itmay he probably found out, is as great an enemy tie tie drillcplougil so the horses are turned out to starve, or havc tieic throats cut, the laws t being still idle. This i indeed, a great pint gaitned, for as a horse will do the ficld-work of six men, there mtust be six t mci employcil, without doubt, isttead of otte horse: so would conclude thcse- most itisiaken c ViolaLors of tite laws by which society i held togetiter. But home would the fact uit n out ? If the foritier still went on, ii spite of all these losses atd crosses, he- night eamploy inen in the place of horses, but not a single muan more than the nutiber that would work at the price of1 the keep of one horse. To do the work of each horse destroyed iie woutld require six ipen but lie wvould only have about a stilling a-day to divide be. t tween these six,-the amount rvhich tite horsme consumed. In the mean time it would be perfectly evident front I all this convulsion atamotgst tie labourers, from all tis le wanton and profitless ruin, thiat a greii t deal of the landi would very quickly go out of cultivation altogetier, if' the latws were still idle. While the land was going out ofcultivation, the stock of corn on hand would be much tuore quickly decreasing than in quiet times. One. l tenth, it is said by practical ment would be lost of that stocl by employingflmils instead of thrashitig tmachines ; and the destruction of drills would cause a larger quan- tity of seed-to be sown thai would be ot'herwise neces-- a sary. T'irash4ing rntclijtes and drills, taken togetber I in their savings, prevent therefore at least a million and ai halF quarters of wheat alone fromn beitig wasted - or they save as muc l corn as woulti sell for four moillions of poundi sterling. Fifteen utihlions ntartes uf swheat are annually coulsunted in Great Britain. As much corn, therefore, as Would feed all the people of Great Britain forsix weeks would be absoluttely throten atray, trodden under foot, sent to the dung-hill ltitb ithe straw- w waste-l for ever, by one wrongact aloue ofthe labourers* and all thils while we should be preparitng togrow great deal less for the next harvest. We shttuld have a tenth of the stock in hand wasted; and probably fonr. tenths less of the land preparedl for cultivetion. Nite I should have a famine, iF foreign countries coueI not sapply us with what the labourers had destroyed. And how do we know that foreign labourers would be wiser than l nglish oies antd abstaint fiom such acts, itn the knowledge that whatever raises the price of produce lowers the rate of wages ? Are foreign labourers better I iiforrmed than Elnglish labourers ? If' so, let us all take shatmic to ourselves, that tite means of acquiring knowledge which this country affords have been ntc'-g. lected; for upon sound knowledge mnust rest tne safety t and 14appiness of' all. About three or four hundred years ago. from the times of King Henry IV. to those of King Henry VI., i and, indeed, long before these reigns, there were often 1 grievous famines in' this countrr, because ihe land was very wretchedly cultivatei. Blen, wonsien, and children i perised of actual hunger by thousands; and thoese who survived kept titelves alive by eating the bark ot trees, atoms, and pigunuts. There were no machines t ite-n; bur thie condition of the laboulrers was so bad, r thae they coutld not be kcpt to 'curie upot thelaitci w th- out very severe tiud tyratunical laos, wlell tabtolutely forbade themn to letave the- station in s-luich titey we tborn as labourcrs, for any hope of bettcriug their con. dition its tite towns. There were net labourners enoulgh to. ?? oun d, Fbr they wvorked. without any skinl wI th weak ploughs and awkward hoea. They wtel.~ tas badly off as thle people of Portugaad piator osvs day, who are miserably poor, 6ecee Ityhebd machines; or as the Chinese laborr scarcely any tmachiines, aild are thepors15tewrl -There was plenty of labour to be promd u h stools were so ban, and the want ofariutrkn . ,ledge soe universal, that ithe laudwanerhlfui s vated. and thaiefore all classes werpolyol le e had little cotta to exchtange for inanufactures a~d i ortcn ene the abourer was badly clothed,' ~ o e, and had a very indifferent share ofthebsadly crop whicit he raised. In the natural course of thiing eI goeud deal of land was lard down to grass;- this W superseding labour to a great extetit, and ?? c atsr Y was raised about ntis plan, and probably goodealuo Creal distress was produced. IButrnarktlicootsequen5e. -Although rthe money wages of laboasr were lowered be cause there were more labourers in the 'marlter, the reaj atnount of wag~es was highser, for footi a ,,t` e by pasturage at a, ciseaper rate. I'he labou~ reasted o imneat wheo haed never Lasited in before ; and wrer gietus 0 of animal fond became general, there wcre cattle and cotta enough in) be exchansged for manufactured geaD1S eand the labourer got a coat and a pi-sir of s1,,w had formerly gone Italf naked. Set0 0 Avery accurate French arriter, Ill.- Dup),s fin a bee, v aeypublished, in which lite enters in.to LMa1ny Com pa. it riscans between the condition of' the peepl flnlg d and that of tlae people of France, saYs, that two-thirds *r 'of the Fretsch people are at this day wlisolly deprived ef 0the nourishamenit of' anm foocd, n that they live "wholly onl ciesetnuts, mnaize, or, potatoes. He accounts for this by storing that ia France onLy, sevett and a Italf' parts in 100 of the soil ar6 cultivated tn taisadlows, ?? if in England onetshtirclof tho whole cotretry ts tnmseadoe or 33 parts ira l{0. lie says, tiserefore, that the llihabi: g t~asts of' Etsglatmd consumae three times as, Much meat fisilk, burter, anti citeose, as the inhtabitants of France ?? and titrt the people of England art colsseqttettly, tlree times bsetter furnished with good tood. .1 hIst, French men, who writes with ait earniest desire to better thel codtatiion of his countrynten, exhorts them to imlprove I-tite breed of cattle, and to lay dowti more ]land to grass ythat the pt~oplc may be bettertaourishetl. If hie thou 4sl e taisia more labour, witbout increased produCEttn, worild. better tite people, lie would exisort thern to break up IF rite 7it parts irs 1(0 of grass Litnd. and go to work lit, y raiitnt; inuire cornr and itnore htotates. Hie does, no Suris thiti. li knos that to lessen ithe price by increasi..s,, the qtuantity of animal Food, oi of any other conhlort, 1 ,really to hi. net time condition of the patiple, by r,, ?? dlraising dtie wisges of labour. lust to returta to our triumphant tnachisie bceaokrr s Iiho utterly. despise such cottsidlcraionsis Ae tite Y-e-r 1advanced, antI the harvestapproached, it would he die. a'covered that itsot oiie-tctnth of tite latad was bowna ; ft Yaltin~l tleplouglhs ?? gone, because thle horses er tnd out to stlarve, -and there wets plenty of is lebourter c those who cisoose to labour foe its oscu sake, nreat the pt iee of a husoee this anitzittg etploymne-ttj-5r c1 human hands, scitricouv or other, would nor quite ae answer thel purpose. It has been calculated that till' ypguser oif tories, oxen, &c. ?? lo htuiditdry in I, Great Britaia is rtel times thle rountoseit'o 1tsanul powe~r 'e if the hanman power insisted upon doing all thle werk tt AIcii tile aorst tools, thle certainty is that not even oine- i- tenthl of the lftit l oclii be cultivated. IWIlrte. lleti. waould aill title issadness cudI Its tiflie ?? of tile I ,lalisurers themrselves. The peopie lintrite tows wil~l] i-prbalyaus thseirattach inse, sehitela are Ships, antI produce of foreign cotinr astry could get (and that i-would be lite) in eachaige for their msanufactutres- eand cthe agricultural Itoatrers, who had put themnselves y our otfllis Sympathty atd protectionof ao ciesy, if sthey it Nvere alloived to eat tspl all they !.acc produced by seuts to imperfect meians, weould be in ini indsiirehy more twretclsed state titan they rould Possibly be, if the the. If matad for labottr wa.s sesany times lees 5titO it stow is. it Tisey woetid be ,jtst sit the cossdi tios of' ity other bar. n,baroui Ipeoplul, that were ignorant of' the invesissons t. tsat consstitute tile pow er of Civilization. Thacy would eat up rule little corn whiclh they raised themselvas I-anti having noshisig to give in exchange, for clothes' Pasad coals, and candis sand soap, and tega, aud sugar, and all the marty comforts which those taho are even as the Worst off are trot wisoihiy deprived of' is All this may alppear as asn extreme stateenteistantis ~a ce rtainly We believe thlat rio such evils could happsen g fr ifrsas were passive, re/sice they will not be, ithe a stost ignorant of the labourers titenselves wossld. itthey a, pro'ceeded so carry their own principle enech ?? .e thass they have dotie, see in their very execeless tlhe teal 7e character si t'ite fdlrly and swickedruess to whtict ii: lits 11led, and wtould lead thorm. Whsy should the IsheUrese ae ?? not destiny the harrows its well ais the ;e thrill, ? 1Tlty leave is machisie wiviicia separates the I- cicils of the eartis, nid break osne altith puta acaed into it P~h'sy dlibrat about a hortc-ctisrn. whiest tity 'as eovdaase 'eItWinnowing sinachisic ? The truth e is b3 oo eslcrtnit, evtc, its th Mitst. of their. eec.e, e gosdceio s ii- sithe resi-onewhich iinduec thest s niaso tat. 'irno.ive isea nsacaLn. oasd aflwuly earsea !lpttinpasiaitce under a ciihL lt D wilsish hascertainly many isardships, and tie itettihip`e lt great pat MIL pr~doced by 'thleswant of" a S itahle labovur. Buatin im-putiig ?? to s niach ry, thely are. at osce cmtbarrasesdwahlen thcev ?? draw tlistinetiees betweetn oss sort of machsine iiititi attolihser. This emnbarrasmnenit deciledliy shows e that reiser are fearful MtiSttLkest at the bo~ttoml of their rfurious iosotiliry to mrclsinecy. Some of these mistakes ii it is thet object of this little booic to clear up. WVeapply it ourselves so the task wits a ronfidcnt liaie ofdoing goot, because intl tis very esisbarrassiment we perceive Itite vorkcings of a consiciesstious priticiple. There is ?? Itud igitorance to bev encountered ; bit there is a dilt. y positiolt to hottest inutiniry, which will, ist tinsse, produce tite besrtLfficts. sI. Diseourets oz erath Sturdy -of Natural Philosoph~y, by 0 J. P. W* Hces-chde.-2. LDibdite'eStcRsdogs Library, 1 ttel.l I.-3. Life of I/se Dair/e of Wellinyfson, vol. 1, ii by Capt. Ml. Sheres-. Y Tue perusal of the first of theso-volumes lias affordedc - us tsauucltgrtiticatto's, esd we earestlery recaricnted it to all wtso d etass ti'terest Ina the cobte and ienfltraoedszr ury Oftrtr- Ats-tioutsoa we are to see scocoa tssiowlestge ex cndusld over, the wttbo i- otit,se Ise he iot etwave sfelt aeuttorisedl re gisa er n- 0tire apprebation to allt ue voltusmes wseltich Iav's ?? issursi in e suca numbers front the 5sress, under ttie namtes of fjtinuet, Na- n ithml, C'?as.,icts, asdod ther Librarics. In severet instances soc Stave obsitvcd isa thire -ceomposiions, or raiher rosepilatios, the desire oftr actri-ing, snore thei t rat of ilsnastsuigs we alluide = iesecalty to those cossiectedvwiltstoietrry citi L erttsssity. No h srsobjection, ]Stowever, canl be brought against itte ssrk stow a befose us. ?? we have a todas 10 inhernihtsoctene freesl his father, anit by Isis own exertionsha hs ga isted.th ?? rantk Pariongthecandidattes for fame, ttescesadirog to the tsofslcifmooth- igteptofknowledge to the untaught; a task which lse ass Li compassed in tts moost snasterly ansI orginat tomnoser. The littitto of a newspaper teitl not altosv us to eatier inte asy Mailts, to scsribe Ilse popular,sitpI, s uitinerstintg mote r atwitch Ithae object aisdtawvai'tages otthe piyseical scirscreoare explainsed, the subslirto discoveries of mostern runes rthrow tiller, to tsee it- ss tatorel nsieitt, and every reader, whautever hisi tank or orcualatioa irs life. cenvinced thatc habitual observatios, anot coatemeplatisn of tlie events hapetssring aroidss tint wittlsisable Isim, tlssegh ne g profoustdt mathematsiciant, o contsibsste his rsite towarits the vest li treasury whichs the nitteteenthi ceittury will botuaethltoi future ae. Wcanot concltude tlaws reinartusswitheurt expresa5singou sisacere w! -I5 that this excetleast beotk should be tilacrd in the, Issislos of our prontisisag youth, oilta ieir entreance in the unisersi- etint, intsesteao r~e teabsursi and uselces esiesterof verbiatlogic sew ts t ?? rte toast y cxamsplcs addunced of the inutust aid w ichirs the active umais os the srortd 'tnd ttile hileooplher iay ren- te er to )tinesnother, rise followtng arscantit ol thle iisco cry eof the re aesinlcrful imedlical lproperties O at iodtt c mtiot fail to irtiareot- f sott.5otziiisoe~ciurerr~esnarks that ttseresidututtsof his 1ev.whci 'exhauOtsteit of the aluali for which litoemeploys it, pteaduc~s a cta- rosreounsof his cosiper better for it-ich lisocoittotarceuitsr. lete~lu srtomnti tile bends of a scientific chentsior for analysis, soti tltC t- "asti is Cthe discovery of one of the mscot shtigutair ant imsportant 15 cltsesnical eletaseiits,itotlise. Tlteproper-iNtest tias, beisigoiutietl a are founti to occur most alipositels' irs illustration an siuepport Of at a veistyit> of new, curioue, aitti instructive viesws then gaisuing ofground sn chemistry, ant thus exercise a morkedi infllsence 55cr tlse whole bodye of that sriesace. Cstriosity is exceited; thecorsitO 55 of rtse new substance is traced to the sea-plants fromn whtae ashes e-the principal tngrediesnt or soap ts obtatitet, satd utrimatela to the i.sea-eater its-lf. et is thence hunitedihrough nature, dascaseted itssalt inines sntit springs, ani l iuiti into altbcodies swicha hare a snarine origis arriansg thle rest, into ostonge. A melcical PMa- setitioner tDr. Cosodet, of Gerievol rtiter calls, to wind a resutists id seirnedy for sthe core ofioes of the toaest grievoussend iisightly i.disorders to vwtich the thumass species is subject-the gzoitre- Wvhich infests rthe inliabitantsofmioustisincous districts to secth ee tt extent that in this fevoured taut we hasvs happily no experieace dsof. atad whirls was said to have breet ?? cu ered by the ashes e. of burnt erlstogego.ILed by tlsis indicatson Ite tries the aefet ef ,iodine u-s that. emmaplaiot, and the result estabisotes the esdraser- at iititanyhfart tha~tbri i singular sutmstance, tidkestas a m-tlicinr, ecus 5; strt th utostprosnptitude coal en- ely on goitre, disoysitti- ?? the largest arid oboecstiscter-re tate a sl~ort timle, sisd acting course, tilts alt ineesichnes, even the most approved, with oncm- iossel failures), as a es-icitic, or natural antaoit a gainet tttaS er otious deformnity. It is thee thritantveeccssiesn to our leoewledge tn ofilature is sure, soaner or later, tontakeitsclf felt in socee tntc- I; icat. application, and that a benefit conferred on scien~ce h~ the Us casual observation or streewd remnark of even en uncrienttific Or at iteat person infallibly, repays itselfivth nits erest, though oftena toina wav tatcould never ha-s brett Contemplated.' th offlhi:,ttihs's fissoy Lstbrarv', or Coliection of Sermes,, it st at be n ?? eccoinmendatioit to observe, that the ttotsccuit5 avlich it cosatetiso 're tise compositions of lPoley, porteus, ntI3e1- field, tshuttlewortb, 1hiorni, arid ether celebratedl Diviusce ef the 'v Churcs of Englaisd. We regret tisat we canstot conininue ttile same lauslatort sthrei, in our remarks on the Lift, of rt Duke of Weltiion. m'ithttt a stitsg auy thing of the faults of style, we shall merely observe euthor, like most modern historiats, is infiitely ?? .r. diffitsed ; an eror no doubt proceeding frosts a want of that due e study of the illustrious authors of antiquity who eminently pDS- Ot Sess the art of comptising sithin conparatively fewv volumes a er splendid and sttstructive-picture ,of events rasaging oser many centuries. se To the ParINTEn of the HiAsrsnrinr TELEGRAPH. ce er From the remarks of your correspondent, ' Civis," di on my letter to the Maiyor ?? of Portsmouth,I sg ftint I had the misfortono stt to e.-press myself clearly. a nscer ,.for an instant wsihe ?? to sake sat isolated &rai- flce.' I have often combated tse idea, when urged by others- e . } 1 y ivis' is right in aigta sucs a partial surreeider of righti, seoult not confer agnrlbeft. I do net call on the Celip0> se ration of Portsttoutl totso aa te scrne with which they have been flghtiitg ris cae frfr but I Call Uopn them 1o 'n furslsh the triends of refonn with an ansicer to the ?? -nobjection, that the extension of suffrage is the destruction of~ B5 vested interests. I call on the Corporation to state to the L1g- tn lature, that they do not cosiert inemser ves ?? of asy to 5e-eted interest, swhich ousjtr to s~etariso' the way of a-efetriM attiit' ?? ?? tiies ol ietcrai ec uha vwai oti uns ?? lko 

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000231/18301213/013/0002
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 13 December 1830

TO DO

TO THE EDITOR OF THE COUNTY NEWSPAPER

Employment of the Poor, and Effects of ihe present Tithe System on Wages of Labourers, and also on Poors Rates.

When such a general call prevails for an advance of labourers wages, may be useful to shew how the present mode of yielding tithe* tends, in some instances, to counteract a measure laudable and necessary. Where tithes are taken and yielded kind, has been policy to keep down tbe rate of wages, in order throw a full share of the poors rate the tithe owner, and now, inasmuch as rise of wages will tend keep down the poors rates, tithe owners will benefit by it, and it will prevent many,as indeed it has already in some instances, from meeting their proportion of a rise of wages by a reduction of tithes. They say to the-'farmer who compounds and complams, Oh, you are not satisfied with your composition you may set tbem out, and I will take them in kind, well knowing that general advance of wages will tend to enhance the value of their tithes reducing the poors rates and where the tithe owners not resort to this illiberal excuse for not making reductions, their agents will, in many cases, induce them to hold out, and withhold' relief from the tenants. It behoves the Legislature to look well at this bearing of the subject, which seems to point out the necessity for some better mode of paying the clergy. There nothing unjust or unnatural in employers of labourers keeping down the rate of wages, when it is for the purpose of throwing fair proportion of the poors rates on the tithe owner, and and when it be considered that the latter has all profit, without risk, labour, vexation, and formerly had to bear the whole weight of the poors rates, and the farmer, for many years past, with all the toil, cost, and anxiety, of raising crops for the tithe owner, has sustained loss upon his remaining nine-tenths, instead of ffettin"- a profit. system can be better calculated to brine religion and its ministers into disrepute, or stir strife place creating hope, peace, faith, and charity between tithe takers and their parishioners tban the present system of tithes. It must be admitted fact, that the very low rate of wages for some years past has arisen from labour producing no profit or good effect to the employers, hence, like any other commodity, has found its level. Times have been, within the last 50 years, when wages were so high, and labourers scarce, that farmers found it difficult to obtain a sufficient supply, and was a constant disputation amongst farmers in neighbourhood that they had seduced each others men away, and that was the period when thrashing machines were introduced, and that which has caused the great difference between those and the present times undoubtedly is, that then labour was profitable and now it is profitless. Many persons imagine that it has arisen from the mere circumstance of transition from war to peace, and over population, but this is an erroneous notion, and if the occupation of land was, from any cause, to become profitable,all labourers would be again fully employed, and wages would go up as a natural consequence. The attempts now making to raise wages is an artificial measure to bolster it up beyond its value, and it is very commendable and desirable in the present state of the country, but it cannot be done with any effect, or for any length of time, unless the farmer liberally aided in the good cause by the landlord and the tithe owner, and where this is withheld, things will soon get to their former state. measure is so likely to keep labour to an artificial price as parishes to find some new employment for labour not required for ordinary calls. The most eligible plan, perhaps, is to rent a sufficient quantity of land to employ all surplus labour in spade husbandry, say for the growth of potatoes, where all labourers should he able to earn the same rate of wages, or nearly so, as is fixed as the scale of the parish. By this plan the price may be regulated, because if the parish will find employment at a certain rate, no one could hire at lower wages. This would be perfectly fair, the loss, if any, would be equally borne the ratepayers, householders well as landholders. Overseers are authorised under a recent law to rent land, whether the majority of the parish desire it or not. Unless some means can be devised to give general relief, the evil will be increased, as the part not provided for would become more exasperated before. Many entertain an idea that labourers are now so numerous, from excess of population, tbat it is impossible to find work for them all, but this is quite mistaken notion. If a prospect of remuneration existed, more than sufficient labour to employ all the hands could be found in most parishes, but the fact is, that where employers have means, the spirit for improvements is broken losses the landholders have so many years past sustained. The plan recommended some of your correspondents, of granting small spots of land to labourers with families, would no doubt attended with advantage, but this would not afford either general or immediate relief, and something is required that would embrace both these objects. Your correspondent A. Z. is as wide his calculation on the cost of labour on a farm as his initials are in the alphabet, if he supposes that the labour of farm of 1000 acres would cost only =£500 a year; unless, indeed, he selects his farm on Longwood Rabbit Warren, or some such barren spot. I am convinced he is no farmer, and that he does not understand the subject on which he writes. Advance of wages will tend to throw more men out of employ, and unless the evil can be effectually remedied, it is much to be feared that the circumstances of farmers and their labourers cannot be materially improved. I am, &c. A Hampshire Yeoman. To Ike Editor of the County Newspajjer. —oo— Sir, have read with much satisfaction in your Paper of the 6th inst. the extracts I sent from the sacred work, called Patriarchal Times: a few more are now submitted. The former passages/were intended as a lesson to the cultivators (now conflagrators) of the soil; the following are addressed to the owners of that soil. Should single individual, Lord or Lady of the land, by the perusal, be induced to look with compassion on the peasant and his labour (from which their wealth in every possible shape derived), or the hearts of the Judges and Jury, on the approaching trials of those poor misguided culprits, be touched with feelings of humanity and mercy, the sole wish is answered of, One of your subscribers, Adelaide. the Edition of 1826, in one volume.] " Lords of the soil, in time of harvest the sound of the sickle yields delight; yet far more delightful the voice of the hireling singing at his labour."— Page 11. " W hom doth all nature join in reproaching? The covetous and uncharitable man. To him the sun refuses not his beams, neither does the mocn deny her light; the earth yields him her produce, and the gentle breezes of heaven disdain not to play around his head: yet his heart is shut to compassion, and bis ear deaf to the voice of sorrow; his nights are passed in reflecting on how be shall increase his store, and his days occupied in fulfilling the suggestions of the night."— Page 93. " The labourers engaged in winnowing corn, now leave the thrashing floors, and those who had finished their employment of pruning the vineyards, wait the door of the store-house to receive their pay from Nathanel, the steward, who is gone to see that the stalled calves have their wonted portion of milk. At his return he directed the occupations ofthefollowingmorning, desiring them to begin the sixth hour to reap the adjoining field, that the harvest might, if possible, be got ere the rains should fall. They were departing, cheered by the smile of encouragement with which Nalhaneigilded their wages." Page 133. " Whilst thou, my Rebekab,like a spreading elm, extendest thy protecting amn on every side, shielding the oppressed from the scorching rays of injustice, and the outcast poor from the chilling storms of poverty."— Page 136. " Listen to the mingled sounds of gladness which proceed from the harvest fields of Laban, where some reap the yellow ears, and others bind them sheaves where time beguiled innocent gaiety, and toil softened by the joyful song and harmless sports of happy children. " ' Stay,' said Laban to Rache), * have more to say to thee—l see the ground scattered with wheat, and reprove tbe negligence of the binders; they answer that thou hast beeu in the field since morning, and that when the sheaves swelled fuller than seemed proper in thy wisdom,thou drewest away the ears, and scattered them again among the stubble, saying—" Leave thus much for the gleaner." * * And what is wheat or barley harvest without the joyful gleaner, father?* demanded Rachel; ' they must have their share. Last autumn the poor of Haran murmured against thee, saying, " Of what service is it to visit the fields of Laban, he leaves not an ear to glean." I love not to hear thee murmured at, my father; this harvest I spake to them, Touch not the sheaves, but gather ye what ye shall find scattered, for I will provide for ye all." They did so, and blessed thee—l love to hear thee blessed, my father!' ** * the vintage season,* said Laban, * thou away grapes to the right and left; thou wilt not suffer those who beat olive trees to clear them of the fruit; and thou encouragest strangers to milk kine, and ewes, and camels. The produce of rchards distributed to all the neighbouring little ones, was never blown down the wind; many of these children are clothed with unbought wool; and, overseer, even for a moment, orders - the muzzle to be put on the ox treading out the corn, thou sbrailway orderest it io be taken off. When I think of thy unsparing hand, I wonder my possessions diminish not rather tban increase.' ' My father,' she replied, * the increase of thy possessions is owing to my unsparing hand; those who feed the poor always prosper therefore I thrifty of thy success, and give away but to increase thy wealth.'"— Page 182. m " Though young ye may comprehend these things and weigh them. When ye good act, take heed, my sons, ye leave it not unfinished, or be sluggards in the discharge of your self-assigned duties— he who takes rule upon himself must not slumber. If ye would assist che necessitous, give with your own hand; if upholdthe falling, present your own arm if release a prisoner, go not before his steps, but follow him j so shall be assured your wishes are fulfilled." To the Editor of the County Newspaper. Sir,—ln yot;.r widely extended and impartial P many calculati ma have of late been introduced prove what nobody can disallow—that the labour' classes have been for some time past very inade ", n , paid. The laldlord and tithe owner have been, cused, unjustly I think, of being the occasion of evil. It would have been to the interest of the labour had thelandlod, when he gave leases of his proper reserved all the cottages, aud let them himself t0 individuals on his farms, parcelling out, the sam time, small pcrtions of land for their accommodation The rents of cottages are, and have long been, mo"t oppressively h and this certainly is not attributable to the land owners. The method I propose, if adopted would make a difference of a week, to the Urer '* advantage—thus, if the farmer paid him 10s a week it would be equivalent to 12s. Many persons, to the writer's knowledge, have paid for very indifferent cettages, without any garden, more than a year When the tithe owner is required to make an abatement in his rent or composition he might very justly reply—that the price of grain at this present tim/ and thedemandforwork,do not justify any abatement' and that if he be willing, for the sake of compliance with popular demand, to accede to a reduction, the inmost that can be expected from him would be, that ha should have the power of disposing of his own and instead of diminishing his account with the farmer whatever deductions he might chuse to make should be first much added to the comforts of the labourer this arran lement the tithe owner may have the* satisfaction of conferring personal benefits upon the deserving poor,which might never reach them through the circuitous ;neans of the farmer's bounty. Allotments three or four acres of land are now in many places about to be made to the labourers. The result will be, the gradual reduction of large farms and the establishment of a peasantry who will have an' interest in the soil they cultivate. Looker-on. 

https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/bl/0000493/18301218/025/0004
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 18 December 1830

THE METHOD ADOPTED BY THE INCENDIARIES IN FIRING THE WHEAT STACKS. Since the commencement of the destruction of pro- perty in the provinces by the incendiaries, numerous have been the opinions f-.rn.ed as to the manner in which the perpetrators have effected their diabolical purpose*, and in many quarters theii lawless acts iiave been attii- buted to foreigners. The fallowing facts, however, re- lative to the destructive coutse adopted by the  TO DO



https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000231/18301213/021/0003
Hampshire Chronicle - Monday 13 December 1830

TO DO

The following Paper has been transmitted to us, and appears to be intended to place the situation of Agricultural Labaurcrs true light before the Owners of the Soil, we readily give publicity. The Humble Petition and Apology of the Labourers of Hampshire. We beg to submit, with the greatest respect, the following Petition, for the consideration of tbe Landholders and Landlords of the county of Hants. We are fully sensible that we do not appear before the public with claims so attractive, (though they are .no less powerful,) as might have been urged before the late unhappy and riotous disturbances, which have attached to us, of necessity, great and deserved odium, and gone far to weaken our cause. But are conscious that our address is to those whose feelings' are not insensible to the influence which distress, supported truth, carries with it, and with this conviction we venture on an appeal, although our late behaviour stands in full and undeniable record against us. Our condition is not so bad as bas been stated by some gentlemen who are forward public affairs, and who have, in a most uncompromising -manner, pronounced us to be starving but that we are not starving does not disprove the fact that our case is bad one, and one that may be considerably improved without the landlord cutting short bis rent-roll, or the clergyman deprived of bis proper share of the produce of the soil, which does and can support us all. We return due thanks to those gentlemen who have advocated our cause with so much zeal, in the Houses of Parliament, County Halls, in public meeting rooms, and by the prominent, though we fear inefficient, means found handbills, addresses, and newspaper advertisements. But, with due submission, we beg to observe, that it is a matter of doubt if relief can be afforded to by baiting the Minister into the repeal of an assessed tax or two, or by talking down the landlord and clergyman into a reduction of «» much per cent. Is cheap soap a boon to those who are often obliged to shift »' reduction in «* sugar, beer, candles, and other necessaries, a benefit to those who are obliged to spend their week wages in bread, and their harvest money in shoes? It may be beneficial as a general measure to take off assessed taxes, but it will not provide immediate relief where it is most needed. And, with all submission, we beg to observe, that no reduction in rents, except one most extravagant and unwarrantable, will benefit us to the degree that might be supposed or wished; for if tenants cannot, as is confidently affirmed, pay their way now, your reduction will remedy their distress only, and we, who stand in the second place, shall get only the chaff, after the grain is taken from it. For agriculturists general we are bound to entertain respect, for they are our immediate masters; we wish, however, that our pay days partook of little more sunshine and encouragement, and that the exertions of those who do merit assistance were a little better estimated. But this is irrelevant, perhaps; therefore we say no more on the subject of kindness and good nature. Before we venture, in our humble judgment, to propose any means of relief, we briefly lay before you an account of our present state. We in general work for so much per week, about nine or ten shillings. If our families are large, and our weekly pay does not amount to bread allowance, it is made from the poor book. We live cottages, for which we pay commonly from =£2 to per annum. We buy our wood, clothe ourselves, and provide what food our means will allow. But we not speak less than the truth when we say that we have little besides bread to live on ; for our shoe bill, rent, and fuel, swallow up all we can earn in harvest, and what little we can save out of our bread allowance during the year. So far from offering this as statement well adapted from its pitiable tenour to attract your notice and sympathy, we offer you the best that can be made of our state in general. A few, in some favoured parishes, who live under the sunshine of charitable benevolence, are better off; but thousands, nay tens of thousands, are in much worse plight, to say nothing of single men 6d per day on the roads, and men with families having only one room to live in, dragging on life made miserable by"the distress of wife and children, who are but half fed, and embittered by the slavish system which overseers are often obliged to resort to, to satisfy the financial notions of their brethren at the vestry. We confess at once* that there are many amongst us who are idle,dissolute, and disaffected, and many more who are bad managers, but indeed hungry stomachs, if they have not suggested rebellion, have enticed us to join in it, and spirits which are English, therefore ill calculated to brook oppression, have tempted us to forsake what we acknowledge to be our duty. With due submission we venture to suggest a remedy, which will in some measure, thouch not entirely, and in most cases, though not universally, meet the existing evil amongst us. We humbly beg of landlords to permit us to live in their cottages free of rent, undertaking ourselves to keep them in order and repair, under a penalty of being ejected. This will be giving and 2s per week to labourers, who are now obliged to save that sum, without abating a farthing of land rent. Cottages are now commonly let with farms, and the farmer lets them to the labourers; but permit us to assume the character of vassals under your protection, and it will to our interest not to forfeit it. ihere is now no common tie between us; the farmers are our landlords; our interest in you gone and decayed. We humbly beg landlords, who may have determined to lower their rents, to build cottages or pay our rent, rather than take so much per acre less. If sacrifice is made of one or two hnndred pounds rent roll we pray that it may be done in this manner, and you will thereby confer ten times more benefit than by enabling the farmers, by a reduction of rent to advance is or per week on our pay. We shall then be indebted to the owners of the soil for the greatest comfort—a bouse to live in; and he entirely dependant for it on our good conduct, being your tenants at a pepner corn rent. We, who inhabit parishes which are over-burtbened with poor, and whose work is not constantly required by the farmer pray that we may hay- little land to work on. shall then, by working little for ourselves and a little for the farmer oba decent living, and relieve the poor-rates. Even f acres and receive the rent for them from ther??te let us have the !and,for that would yield return to double of what the rate provides bread all We humbly confide in your wisdom a. to the pos•km;L these measures into practice. If sibihty of putting J we would meet them in an you have any reS pect; and be assured SfftSS are of brave bands and hearthat er « a nnd to ou a little, though judicious, that maybe bo d d which w ;il release us from the degraded situation w free Britons which our national cjj™ herd of labourers together with them. 

etc



https://britishnewspaperarchive.co.uk/viewer/BL/0000493/18310122/020/0004
Hampshire Advertiser - Saturday 22 January 1831

TO DO


ALLOTTING LAND TO THE PEASANTRY.

Thetc can doubt that a greal deal of thediaifCss of the peasantiy, and, in consequence, weal aa«J their insubordination, have arisen from thhir any thing which might be called a stake the lind. The old custom of providing the labourer with ground, however trifling its extent may be, gave him-a feeling that lit belonged to thf country, and bad duties lo fulfil as Englishman. Bui the grasping and short-sighted system refusing land lo tl« cottager, while it was thrown into large farms, and men were displaced for sheep, necessarily produced a total alienation in the men thus thrown cut, and we can have nothing new p. learn in the intelligence, that they looked on these i asters as tbeir enemies. this system, the whole labour ing population would in a few years have perished. »*-. become a loose mob, wing from place place employment, -or, when employment failed, for plunder and inclined part in every public dkonlcr. this system ilm labourer, when his day 's work was done, would have had no refuge but an ale-house, or sqnjc miserable lodging, where, without comforts any other association but with men in his own situation, equal*, discontented, equally without connection with the lau, and equally exposed to the suggestions of every h.w tempter, whether poacher, smuggler, or in time the rebel would have foaud him fit for his pose, and might see his body, which forms the strength of the British population, converted into the readies* instrument of public ruin. But what a striking difference there must in the habits, as there is the condition the labourer returning, after his day’s work his master’s ground, little holding of hia own* where the bouts between Ids regular employmenl and his going to rest may given to some labour in his own little portion of ground, and whore ©very hour not merely employs him but turned eventful benefit. Ihe d.fir-ence t actually broad between the honest, kind-hearted and virtuous peasant, and (lie sullen, bruul, and vicious serf; between the industrious labourer oi limes, and the Captain Swing the present. Wear.) glad lo see that the cottage system beginning tc adopted. 
